[ANNOUNCE] Squeezeslave: 1.1 released

Squeezeslave 1.1-253 is now available at

[url]http://sourceforge.net/projects/softsqueeze/files/squeezeslave/squeezeslave-1.1.253/[/url]

[b]Release Downloads[/b]
[url=http://sourceforge.net/projects/softsqueeze/files/squeezeslave/squeezeslave-1.1.253/squeezeslave-1.1-253-win.zip/download]Windows ASIO, Direct Sound and WASAPI (Vista/Win7) 32/64-bit[/url]
[url=http://sourceforge.net/projects/softsqueeze/files/squeezeslave/squeezeslave-1.1.253/squeezeslave-1.1-253-osx.tar.gz/download]Mac OSX 32-bit PowerPC/Intel and 64-bit Intel[/url]
[url=http://sourceforge.net/projects/softsqueeze/files/squeezeslave/squeezeslave-1.1.253/squeezeslave-1.1-253-lnx26.tar.gz/download]Linux v2.6 kernel 32/64-bit Intel ALSA, Pulseaudio and OSS[/url]
[url=http://sourceforge.net/projects/softsqueeze/files/squeezeslave/squeezeslave-1.1.253/squeezeslave-1.1-253-lnx26-armel.tar.gz/download]Linux v2.6 ARMel NoFPU ALSA/OSS dynamic and OSS static[/url]
[url=http://sourceforge.net/projects/softsqueeze/files/squeezeslave/squeezeslave-1.1.253/squeezeslave-1.1-253-lnx24.tar.gz/download]Linux v2.4 kernel 32-bit Intel ALSA and OSS[/url]
[url=http://sourceforge.net/projects/softsqueeze/files/squeezeslave/squeezeslave-1.1.253/squeezeslave-1.1-253-lnx24-i586.tar.gz/download]Linux v2.4 Pentium MMX or better OSS statically linked[/url]
[url=http://sourceforge.net/projects/softsqueeze/files/squeezeslave/squeezeslave-1.1.253/squeezeslave-1.1-253-solaris.tar.gz/download]Solaris 9 32-bit SPARC/Solaris 10 64-bit SPARC/Solaris 10 32/64-bit Intel and OpenSolaris 32/64-bit Intel[/url]

[b]Source[/b]
You can browse the source [url=http://code.google.com/p/squeezeslave/source/browse/#svn/squeezeslave/branches/squeezeslave-1.1-253]here[/url] or download it with subversion.
[code]
svn checkout http://squeezeslave.googlecode.com/svn/squeezeslave/branches/squeezeslave-1.1-253
[/code]

The source is also available in [url=http://squeezeslave.googlecode.com/files/squeezeslave-1.1-253-src.tar.bz2]tar file format[/url] if you don't have subversion available.

[b]Contributed Downloads[/b]
[url=http://squeezeslave.googlecode.com/files/SqueezeSlave-1.0-r216-88f6281-001.spk]Synology DS109, DS409slim, DS209, DS409, DS509, RS409, DS110j, DS210j, DS410j Package[/url]  ** Thanks to JonasK for contributing the package **

[url=http://squeezeslave.googlecode.com/files/squeezeslave-oss_1.1-r281_brcm47xx.ipk]OpenWrt brcm47xx OSS Package[/url] Recommend as first choice for Broadcom 47xx users.
[url=http://squeezeslave.googlecode.com/files/squeezeslave-alsa_1.1-r281_brcm47xx.ipk]OpenWrt brcm47xx ALSA Package[/url] More resource hungry than the OSS version.
[url=http://squeezeslave.googlecode.com/files/squeezeslave-oss_1.1-r281_brcm63xx.ipk]OpenWrt brcm63xx OSS Package[/url]
[url=http://squeezeslave.googlecode.com/files/squeezeslave-alsa_1.1-r281_brcm63xx.ipk]OpenWrt brcm63xx ALSA Package[/url]
[url=http://squeezeslave.googlecode.com/files/squeezeslave-oss_1.1-r281_ar71xx.ipk]OpenWrt ar71xx OSS Package[/url]
[url=http://squeezeslave.googlecode.com/files/squeezeslave-alsa_1.1-r281_ar71xx.ipk]OpenWrt ar71xx ALSA Package[/url]
[url=http://squeezeslave.googlecode.com/files/squeezeslave_1.1-r281_mips-lnx26.tar.gz]Generic MIPS ALSA/OSS[/url]  ** Thanks to MusicManiac for contributing the OpenWRT and MIPS packages **

[URL=http://ralph_irving.users.sourceforge.net/ss10disp.jpeg/][IMG]http://ralph_irving.users.sourceforge.net/ss10disp.jpeg[/IMG][/URL]

[b]What's new in Squeezeslave 1.1-253[/b]

Fixed a long standing issue with squeezeslave ALSA hanging after the playlist was stopped the first time.

Fix to handle partial sends in slimprotocol and http socket code.  Thanks to Mike Bennett for the patch.

Better squeezeslave player sync support by adding STMl notify buffer threshold has been reached message when autostart=0/2 and modifying the first track threshold when autostart=1/3.

Use default retry_connection of 5 seconds instead of exiting with an error when supplied retry interval is invalid.

Updated all PORTAUDIO_DEV builds to revision 1608.

Added Squeezeplug ARMel ALSA and OSS builds to official release.

Added Slimprotocol BYE! message notify on squeezeslave exit.

Added FreeBSD sparc64 makefile in contrib.

Removed the Escape key from the list of keys that can quit from interactive mode, only Q or q exit now.

Removed old portmixer from all ALSA PORTAUDIO_DEV builds.

Increased reported firmware release to 5 to identify STMl and BYE! slimprotocol updates.

[ANNOUNCE] Squeezeslave: 1.0 released

[b]What changed in Squeezeslave 1.0-210[/b]

Windows 7/Vista WASAPI Exclusive and Shared mode version.
Default is Exclusive mode.
Add -S/--shared option to the command line to enable sharing the audio device.
Settings in Control Panel for the shared device MUST be set to 16-bit, 44100 Hz (CD Quality).
Note:  Changing audio settings in Control Panel silences audio until Squeezeslave is restarted.  A known issue with the audio support library, no fix is currently available.

Removed the pthreadGC2.dll dependency for Windows.

Added option to increase the process priority class to high for windows using -H/--highpriority command line option.

Mac OSX 10.5/10.6 64-bit Intel version is now included in the Mac download package.

Added workaround for unavailable keys Insert, Home and End with an Apple keyboard in OSX terminal interactive mode.

Added portaudio hostapi name and low/high latency info to output device listing.

Added -y/--latency command line option to allow tuning the audio buffers to prevent audio dropouts or "skipping".
This issue is mainly seen on Linux systems and I have found the following values eliminates the dropouts.
For Linux 2.6 kernels add -y84 or  2.4 add -y140 to the command line.
This increases the CPU utilization of squeezeslave, while streaming.
These are the recommended starting values but can be increased by even values if dropouts are still heard.
Only available on squeezeslave versions with the compile flag portaudio:1541.
To check if your version has this option run squeezeslave with the -V/--version option.

Short first tracks preventing advance to the next track in the playlist has been fixed.  LastFM and Napster now change to the next track as well.

OGG stream positioning no longer fails when clicking the time bar in the server default skin web interface.

Upgraded libogg to v1.2.0.

Upgraded libvorbis to v1.3.1.

Upgraded libportaudio to PADEV r1541.

You can interact with squeezeslave via the keyboard and control the player like the slimp3, sb2/3 and boom hardware players on all platforms.  Note that bit mapped graphics are not available, only text characters can be displayed.  Requires SBS v7.4 r26720+.  7.2/7.3 server patches are supplied in the binary package files.  See -D and -w options for usage details.

The screen shot above is an 80x4 Windows command prompt running squeezeslave with these parameters.

[code]squeezeslave.exe -r15 -Ysqueezeslave.log -D -w78[/code]

Key mappings are listed in the --help/-h information.

[code]
Keyboard         Remote

0-9              0-9
Insert or I      Add               
Cursor Keys      Arrows
>,<              Fwd,Rew
Home or H        Home
End or N         Now Playing
Space or P       Pause
Enter            Play
Q                Quit
R                Repeat
S                Shuffle
?                Search
b                Browse
F                Favourites
%                Size
Z                Sleep
+,-              Vol up,down[/code]


The displayed information can be changed in the player settings for the squeezeslave player.

All available command line options and compiling instructions are available on the [url=http://wiki.slimdevices.com/index.php/SqueezeSlave]wiki[/url].

[b]Bug Fixes[/b]
Fixed datarace in slimaudio_buffer_set_readopt and slimaudio_buffer_available functions.
Fixed PA audio callback blocking when in output buffer underrun situation.
Fixed unlocking of buffer_mutex before data_len update.
Fixed buffer_read remaining blocked after the buffer has been closed.
Fixed ogg decoder handling for ov_read returning OV_HOLE.

[b]Known Problems[/b]
Squeezeslave will not work with the Spotify Plugin as direct streaming is not supported.

OSX systems can take up to 20 seconds to enter sleep mode when running squeezeslave under launchctl.

If squeezeslave is playing when sleep mode is activated, no audio will be heard after system resume. Stop and restart the player from the classic web gui to restore audio.  Alternatively, STOP the player not PAUSE before placing the computer into sleep state.  This can be accomplished by holding the space bar in interactive mode until the player displays "stopping" in the display. There is also a "stop" button in the classic web gui.

LIRC and LCDd features are NOT available in the windows version.

[b]Source[/b]
You can browse the source [url=http://code.google.com/p/squeezeslave/source/browse/#svn/squeezeslave/trunk/squeezeslave]here[/url] or download it with subversion.
[code]
svn checkout http://squeezeslave.googlecode.com/svn/squeezeslave/branches/squeezeslave-1.0-210
[/code]

The source is also available in [url=http://squeezeslave.googlecode.com/files/squeezeslave-1.0-210-src.tar.bz2]tar file format[/url] if you don't have subversion available.

Deleted deprecated linux24 and linux26 non-interactive makefiles.  Functionality now provided by -display makefiles.  See deprecated/README.txt for details.
